Aotearoa, kaitiakitanga, mana whenua.
you
John and Wendy, thank you so much for your time. We have half an hour with you. So if you would like to start with some opening remarks, then we will have questions for you. Thank you.
Thank you for the opportunity to be here today. I'm John Kensington, the chair of the External Reporting Board. I've been on the chair since last August, and I've been a board member by eight years prior to that. I'm joined by Wendy, our chief executive, Wendy Venter, along with Dr Amelia Sharman, our director of sustainability reporting and Dawn Bowden, our general manager corporate services.
Now, the XRB sets financial reporting standards, assurance standards and climate reporting standards that provide consistent, internationally comparable information people can trust and use to make decisions. And those standards apply across the entire economy from large listed companies, public sector organizations through to charities and corporate societies and small owner operated businesses.
It is important to note, we do not regulate or enforce those standards, and we do not decide who they apply to. So Parliament sets the legislative requirements and regulators such as the FMA or Charity Services are responsible for oversight and enforcement.
But what we do underpins confidence in New Zealand's economy supports access to global capital, strengthens transparency and accountability across both the public and private sectors.
So high quality standards are not an end in themselves. There are means to better government, risk management and capital allocation.
Now, as the world becomes more complex and transactions become more complex, reporting becomes more complex. So it's proportionality really matters.
And that's why in New Zealand we use the tiered system, so that the large entities can report the information they need to be able to meet international expectations, whereas smaller organizations report information more appropriate to their size.
So I'll hand over now to Wendy to outline our performance to date and our priorities.
Thank you and good afternoon and thank you chair for the opportunity to appear before the committee for this financial review.
Just building on what John has said in terms of setting our standards. What we really are trying to do is to make sure our standards are internationally aligned, but also locally relevant and fit for purpose in the New Zealand context.
So what does that actually mean in practice? Two things. We try to influence and we do actively influence the international standard setting.
So we are relationships there and then make domestic modifications to fit our legal and as John was sort of saying our economic context.
I guess the in terms of the 24, 25 year the year under scrutiny, I just wanted to sort of highlight that we did deliver a quite a significant program of work.
Notably, we sort of amended the climate reporting standards to provide relief to entities facing implementation challenges with some aspects of the reporting and we issued a new standard for the audits of less complex entities.
It's called both these examples illustrate our strategic priority of developing fit for purpose standards.
The other thing that we do quite a lot of and it has been increasing over the years is supporting guidance and supporting the implementation of our standards by providing guidance.
As good examples of that would be over the course of we started it in the 24, 25 years that continues into this year.
We are really supporting the rollout of a new standard, a standard that will apply from next year to for profit entities which will change the way profit and performance is measured in financial statements.
And we also have done a lot of work within corporate societies and helping them understand the requirements of the legislation that was introduced in 2022.
Looking looking ahead, there's probably three main strategic priorities that I just wanted to highlight.
One was the review of the accounting standards framework that John sort of talked about just now.
The others later this year we will be consulting and engaging with our stakeholders on a draft climate reporting roadmap for New Zealand to provide certainty about the future direction there.
And the third priority is really the world of emerging technologies and AI is absolutely front of mind for international standards setters and for us.
And we just are really focused on understanding the opportunities risks and implications, particularly with the auditing standards has been a focus for the for the current year.
And this is the final point I just wanted to acknowledge the XRB team. Clearly that's sort of and that's the staff, the boards, the technical boards and really importantly the very many stakeholders who basically contribute their time and expertise to our work.
So we could not do this job without that, that engagement. And, you know, in that context really proud that our 24 25 results show that 83% of our stakeholders were overall satisfaction with that we contribute to our purpose of trust and confidence in New Zealand's external reporting.
That's it. That's it for me and very much look forward to the committee's questions. Thank you. And that was very nice of you to acknowledge everybody.
And we have a first question from Marina Williams.
Do you want to call to thank you very much for coming in and welcome back Wendy.
Just hoping to hone in on the climate related exposures regimes brought in and then face a significant change from government.
Firstly, on your role as system steward and exercising some soft influence within the market, how have you seen the market respond to like a level of change and disruption?
Yeah.
And how do we, how do you sort of measure that? What kind of impact is that having on, you know, the ability to get the right people in the room with these entities, the ability to have a workforce that is prepared to audit for climate?
What are the flow and impacts?
Yeah. No, it's a good question there. It's very much has been, I guess, our focus on the setting the standards with the climate reporting was really sort of understanding how what we could do it lines up with that supporting adoption and implementation.
So we've done quite, quite a lot there. We sort of work with preparers assurance right across the ecosystem to go issued a huge, huge amount of guidance over the last ever since the standard came out and Amelia and the team have been very busy with that.
What we have seen is essentially any new regime comes with introduces change. There is always that that's the aspect of change and this was a brand, this was a new regime in terms of being mandatory.
I think it's fair to say it's also really steep learning curve. So that's that's the the targeted changes that I sort of highlighted in my introduction was very much a response to this is actually really tough here.
What can we do a standard set to provide a bit of relief and provide a little bit more time for people to adjust. So that's what we were seeing getting data getting the people.
What we are seeing what more recently though is people as they start to essentially understand the requirements get to the value of what the standards are there to provide which is in set out in primary legislation which is how you fundamentally thinking about your risk and opportunities from climate change.
So we just that that's what we've seen in the in the in the market. It's an ongoing thing we speak anecdotally we get sort of quite a lot of examples of how people are and then respond respond to that.
So I think that's probably the sort of the overarching comments I would make but haven't quite got got it. Yeah, let me know if you want me to the thing I'm interested in is the quality and the consistency of this.
I mean that is your role within the system.
And you know have do you have some observations about because really it's not you know you're not reporting on a single figure. A lot of the time you're asking people to respond to questions that are qualitative about their ability to respond to climate challenges.
So they need to buy into that. Yeah, so what are you noticing at the moment about the quality and consistency of disclosures is that different from a couple of years ago how do we ensure that when we set a standard that standard is met whatever the standard might be.
Yeah.
So I think the quality you're quite right to highlight that you know it's not like financial information and it is a little bit different we have experience and performance information that's not dissimilar.
So what we are definitely finding is that it's really people sort of understanding there are judgments to be made here about what is material.
And then for preparers and markets to understand and to do that. So I think it's it's it's really about getting the right metrics that people can have that quality and consistency we are have been in terms of looking at understanding what the changes I did measuring that impact.
So I think we started through our work on post implementation review looking at evaluations of how that will roll out so that's where I think we will get a little bit more than anecdotal.
But yeah, I think that's probably the key thing I would highlight there.
Yeah, so pretty much.
Yeah.
I'm just interested in the audit workforce for climate.
Is that a mature workforce in New Zealand?
Are we training up the right number?
You have a girl?
Because I might get John to respond.
Yeah, my day job.
Excuse me, I am an audit partner.
So I think back to your first question.
One thing I would add is that people have been through it three times more comfortable doing it the third time.
There's a learning curve and we've seen them move up the curve quite quickly and quite well.
In terms of the audit workforce, it's a very interesting one.
There's a lot of training we need to do within the firms to get up to the same skill set levels of an understandings that we have for traditional accounting.
If you like to call it that.
But I think the really interesting thing is certainly the graduates that we're getting now and a large number of more senior staff are actually quite
interested in it and want to do it because they might be a little tired of doing the run of the middle order work they've been doing.
So we've really had less of a challenge and I think we thought we would getting people to want to look at and be involved in climate reporting.
And we've been able to pick up a few experts along the way.
And that would be, I'm sure, similar across all the firms.
Yes, and I appreciate this question might actually have taught you appreciate previous line of questioning sorry was focusing on environmental reporting.
I suppose kind of including that actually more widely.
How do you measure with the standards?
You were your standards are actually improving the quality of reporting not necessarily just the compliance with those standards, but actually that she reporting for the general public for government is actually.
Yeah, that in terms of the measurement of the quality of the standards.
Yeah, in terms of the outcomes of the reporting.
There's probably different things that I would highlight one one that I guess two things the standards are there to sort of say there are some requirements about what information you think is the most useful for the primary user and
and it's defined usually as the investor and the lender.
That's something that's thought about very hard in the design to actually achieve the objectives of, you know, that that reporting.
These are most of our standards I should add our international standards.
And so what we are really working there to do is actually talk to the users.
I think the first the answer the question would be to design it into the requirements of what what what is going to be quality.
When when they actually implemented then it starts to get a little bit more broader into actually the whole ecosystem working to go.
Okay, what is what does quality look like in terms of compliance.
The preparers the assurance the audit that happens actually gives you basically a report on whether it's met the requirements and and then you can go back to that.
And then the requirements and, you know, the fairness of the financial statements as an example.
And I will also emphasize the role of the FMA in terms of monitoring and enforcing it because they sort of give these monitoring reports that give you insight into quality.
These disclosure are not quite right here.
So all of those factors are sort of factors that basically give you insight into the quality of the reporting.
I suppose the question was, I suppose it's a little bit easier to work out whether a standard reporting standard has been met, whether there was but actually what's the quality of the actual standard different to actually whether it was met or not.
Right.
Are we actually improving the quality of reporting in New Zealand.
I think by adopting an international standard which is which is principally we are a standard what we call a standard taker.
So adopting an international standard that has had the best global minds think about is it should it be done this way.
They've gone out, put it out for expression of interests and sort submissions back.
And then we do a similar quick process here. I think that probably helps a lot.
I think to your point about is reporting improving.
That is then the work of the regulator where they then look at the reports and see is the right information getting out here.
Are we avoiding financial disruption in the market or were still scandals in the country through the reporting and are people able to invest with some certainty that it's a level playing field for all investors.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
You mentioned in your opening statements around AI and standards in regard to that.
Does that mean setting standards for AI or the use of AI and auditing or what's the role there?
Yeah, the role not setting standards for AI.
The role is very much considering the opportunities and the rest that AI poses for how people go about reporting and the assurance standards.
So it's a very much a focus on the assurance standards of our international auditing standard set.
And we've been working very closely with them.
And we are on a small set of small number jurisdiction advising them going sort of probably three things that that focus is basically embedding a technology focus in any new standard setting.
Okay, how is technology used today? How can it be done?
Going back and looking at some really poor auditing standards as a classic audit evidence and risk response.
How do you actually get insight into getting audit evidence risk response when technology is just fundamentally, you know, the, I guess people talk about black box nature.
And then the other third thing is actually keeping abreast of what's going on.
You know, whether it's the global firms who obviously have, you know, what are we understanding in the market, if you like, in terms of how our reporting organizations using AI, how our auditors using AI.
What are the opportunities of this is essentially the innovation, you know, you can get basically lots more insight very rapidly.
And we're just beginning that. So that's the nature of the worker.
That gives you a little bit of a flavor of how we think about AI and technology.
Good. Moves, are there any other questions?
Very briefly.
Yep, I don't know.
The availability of what it is with rural problem government two years ago.
I'm interested in what you're saying around trends in workforce, not climate.
And AI will be a part of that. But is that in fact speeding things up?
Is that helping us do more?
So I can give a firm perspective here.
I think what we've seen is over the last five years.
The automation of our audit approaches has meant that we can take last year's file, roll it over, for example, delete all of the.
Keep the audit program of the works to delete all the information.
I think that has resulted in us in us needing less people to do the job.
The availability of auditors, it was definitely a problem when it was COVID and no travel.
But actually people like to come to New Zealand and see New Zealand for what it is.
And the global networks are very much interested in making sure their staff get on these international exchanges and see the world.
So it's never going to be easy.
There are more glamorous jobs than being an auditor.
So I think we're probably back to a stage now where that supply of staff constraint is less of a problem than it was.
Sorry, one more thing I would add.
I know the professional services organisations like Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand,
they are looking at sort of widening the pipeline at the bottom,
going actually who are the people we're trying to attract into the profession.
And actually can we think about the sorts of skills that future accountants and auditors need in a far more holistic,
the technology implications, all of that.
So I think it's quite a big focus, the attractiveness and retention, I know, wider from a focus.
So that's something I just said to what John said.
Do we have room for one more?
So yes, are you going to give a quick question?
Yes, so, Dr.
The public sector has gone through this whole process of moving towards outcomes-based performance
and now kind of reflecting on yourselves.
There's a nice comment in here around looking at non-financial transactions
and how you assemble information, performance information, that sort of thing.
I'm also interested in the VFM side of it, so the financial side of it.
So from our perspective, are we getting value from your organisation
and the amount of money that we spend in terms of that?
So the outcomes, which is what Hamish was referring to, I think,
in terms of not only who you're working for, but also yourselves.
How do you see that working through your work programme now that you're looking ahead?
In terms of non-financial, I just wanted to clarify.
Value for money.
Yeah, absolutely.
There's two things, I guess, us as an organisation,
which is essentially, and that's been quite central to, you know,
probably ever since the XRBs established.
I've only been Chief Executive since early last year,
but I think we are a sort of a current organisation, a current entity.
We get public money through our appropriation.
Like any organisation, we are,
any organisation dealing with the challenges that we've had since COVID
and since is what can we do differently?
Where do we need to prioritise?
What's the most valuable thing we do?
We've had real examples over the last few years where we just turned our mind
to really focusing on what is our core role here
and who can we work with?
Who can we leverage, if it's not quite right,
collaborate with to achieve even better outcomes?
So I would say, and we've done very implemented sort of things
like using productivity tools in our organisation,
rolled out co-pilot,
really strongly encouraging people to, you know,
how can we just do things and just really embrace the benefits
that we can get to just, to get to, as you say,
a more efficient, effective outcome?
You know, I guess I'm just sort of reiterating
where Hamish was going on this,
and that is that we want to ask the question,
are we getting value from this organisation
in terms of the outcome and the output from it?
You know, our sense is yes.
But some good information around that would be good.
Yeah, I guess in a funny way, the counterfactual
is probably important too.
If you didn't have good quality standards,
New Zealand's been lucky and we haven't had a financial crisis
of the magnitude of any of some other countries.
And I think that is probably down to the fact
that there has been disciplines in place
and required reporting in place,
and that reporting has gone through boards
and been considered and challenged.
So, you know, the counterfactual is take away the accounting standards,
let industry use whatever they like.
It's a mad max vibration.
Yeah, so I think what I'm saying is we need information
around how the standards are, as Hamish was saying,
being utilised and implanted.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
No, and it's essentially that point around the performance,
how do you get impact?
Actually, there is an element of what are the broader indicators.
We might not have direct line of sight
of exactly what is that standard.
What can we do to collect that information?
I don't understand the point.
Okay, Dr Hamish.
And probably following on from that,
you operate in a rich ecosystem
with many different players
from the FMA, the Auditor General's Office,
Treasury, and will probably produce guidance.
How do you ensure that are you working together
in this no duplication of effort between different organizations?
Yeah, look, for example, probably the best example
that is with the FMA.
We have an MOU of them.
We probably put it in place about three years ago.
We talked to them about, hey, please don't,
you try and set standards.
If you want a standard to be set
because you think something's not there,
come and talk to us and we can do that,
and we won't cross across into regulation.
And I guess we regularly meet
with the players in the ecosystem
to make sure we are doing,
effectively staying in our lane, I suppose.
Yeah.
And I suppose that's kind of internal in New Zealand.
Talked about being a standard
to take care of a regulation taker.
Is there a stage where, actually,
it's ridiculous New Zealand has its own entity
to do this rather than actually just
fully taking standards from
Australia, the UK,
other jurisdictions?
Yeah.
New Zealand has a fairly unique TED system,
which ensures the large entities.
So banks insurers from Terra,
they're reporting all the information there,
compatriots overseas.
We've also got at the bottom end of that TED system,
reporting requirements specifically designed
for New Zealand entities.
So the risk of going to a jurisdiction
and relying completely on another jurisdiction is
you'd be stuck with their tearing,
which may not really consider some of those
bottom-end entities that New Zealand has,
or size-wise.
Yeah.
Great. Looks like that's it.
Thank you so much for your time,
and thanks for answering questions.
And you might have more questions later on from us.
Thank you.
Thanks for the opportunity.
Thank you very much.